Thank you again everyone. Thank you very much, everyone participating. Thank you for coming
and for participating. Thank you very much, everyone. Again, participating in making time
and effort, joyful effort, and to put triple things, to put together and make this time
and be with us. And we will be discussing the teachings of the Glorious Teacher, Buddha
Shakyamuni, and Gauraben Mahsambhava, according to our best capabilities with, again, full
of joy and devotion, and bodhic thought is one of the beautiful, again, moment, the beauty
of things to do in our lifetime. According to other teachings, we will be making it meaningful
of our lives, which is so important. Life is precious. Life is so important. And life
is also precious. And it is not staying forever and ever, but well, everything in our control,
in our kind of side, then to take this advantage and take the opportunity to cultivate our inner
strength of joy, peace, happiness, realization, bodhic jata. And those are really according
to the teaching of the Glorious Teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, we are touching to the core of
our nature, treasure. It will give us reward. It will support. It will become as like cushion
for us, continued for all the time. Not just on this lifetime, but continually, according
to the teaching, as we go on, as we go on, it really will support according to the teaching.
And that was witnessed by so many great practitioners, masters. So therefore we are on that path,
we're in that direction, which is wonderful and thankful. Again, again, to continue to
follow the teaching of the Glorious Teacher of Buddha Shakyamuni and Gaurabha Masambhava,
as we all know, the most important is to correct the motivation or have the right, important,
good motivation. What does that mean? We have so many motivations, so many thoughts and
conceptions. Many times those are very much connected with mondings. That means mondings
with samsaras, grasping, duality, and in summary of those self-import and all that. But correct
motivation, what we're talking here, is more joy, more appreciation, more modest thinking
of all the beings, really. Sensitive from heart and mind, according to our best capabilities,
those are correct motivations. Along with that, today we are reconnected with the teaching
of the Glorious Teacher of Buddha Shakyamuni, which is not just the Buddha Gita teaching
we are connecting. When we go through this teaching, and as you all know, it is a nugget
teaching of our own treasures, our own nature of the mind, our qualities, our goodness qualities.
We're exploring that. That is so important. According to the teaching, and we know too,
we know that for a long time, from the beginning of this time until now, we really can't carry
by the force of the duality and unnecessary, unbeknownst thought, which is self-important,
based on the ego clings. But today, we are turning the back to the right directions,
looking to our treasures, re-standing and building up our strength so that can continually
benefit us and benefit for all the beings. So that is what really so important, and that's
the motivation. That starts with the joy and appreciation. Joy and appreciation, our situation,
and our qualities, being as beautiful human beings, and all the opportunity, everything
with us, 18 endowments. It's called 18 endowments. We have that. We all have that. But 18 endow
ments,
if we don't activate it, maybe we have the add freedoms, but the 10 endowments, sometimes
it's going to miss. It becomes shrinking. Therefore, to activate those qualities, then
perfectly, 18 endowments, joy and appreciation, courage and commitment, inspirations. Along
with that, then also devotions. Teaching was so precious and important because it's our
nature. Buddha is pointing out one after another how to activate our beautiful qualities, nature.
So it is really meeting and discovering this beautiful teaching. It's not just to go
accidental. According to the teaching, it is very special. We are all dynamically connected
to this teaching. Feel happy and joy. We're just returning back or going back to our own
treasures. How wonderful, how beautiful. Thanks to the Buddhas, Gaurab and Masambhav,
all the lineage masters and the Dunyun long pass, true, lineage master, continue to carry
that. Lineage master is not just a lineage master, some kind of big thing that, but they
are great practitioners. They are so devoted. They are so humble. They are so simple and
courage and commitment. They really practice it, what they receive the teaching and that's
why they actually like that and then therefore they become great lineage masters. We are
also lined up that, that part is not something. So therefore, feel happy and a joy and we
feel strong devotions. And together with that, according to Mahayana, essence teaching of
the Mahayana teaching is a body that you all know. Again, I'm repeating that it's not something
that you don't know and also I maybe don't know, but we have to activate it. We have
to glorify this body together. Really thinking of a sentient or living beings, that today
I'm going to practice and one way I'm going to practice, I'm going to practice one month
or whole time, made that benefit to all sentient beings. What means benefit? Removing the suffering
,
the difficulty, the turbulence, cause of suffering, the turbulence, the difficulties and the reward
in the nature as Buddhahood, discover that. Really made this our activity, made our practice
become sensitive for that purpose, for that reason. That is bodhicata with boundless, poor
boundless those kind of activated, all those qualities. And then in the teaching, this
is the Vadhyana teaching. And the Vadhyana teaching is then they're regularly going to
the result or the fruit of the enlightenment, the realization of the enlightenment or they're
regularly to the purity status. Purity status, that means pure from the dualities. So totally
pure from duality and bring up that realization. Those are the teaching said, all three, whether
status, whether a poem, whether a song, whether a mind or the spaces, those are in teaching.
All five perfect places, perfect teaching, perfect the teaching, perfect the retinal,
perfect the time. Seeing those things clearly that, and it is not just that we are making
up that. According to the teaching, reality, everything in that status is not really we're
making up because why we did not see or why we don't feel? Because due to the dualities.
Duality is like cataracts. Cataracts is the blocks, the reality where the natures are.
We can't really throw the powerful means of the teaching of the skilful means and the
systems immediately break through that duality and with doubt and hesitations and the embarrassing
the true qualities as it is, as there. And that is known as five perfect. We those all
thought and then we go to these teachings. This teaching is of course you all know is
actually teachings discovered by the great master. The new look up and a new my teaching
that I mean, this generally maybe we talk, I talk this, this teaching is again teaching
of the gracious teacher. But I checked them and what I checked them and they gave varieties
of the teachings. All those and those teachings are in a combined or concluded in the nine
Jana teachings that you may be whenever you already know that. Nine Jana teachings, all
those teachings that what Buddha gave at the age 35 when he reached enlightenment and until
age 81 or 82, she recorded different scholars where they explain it. So give the teachings.
All those teachings are put together as put together as Jana level and the nine Jana teachings,
nine Jana teachings. Among the nine Jana teachings, this teaching, what we're going through or
what we're practicing, what we're going to go over this is the nine Jana, the big pinnacle,
big of the teachings, which is called Rokti teaching of course you all know. Rokti teaching
also divided in the three sections and those sections are known as the same day or mind
sections, space sections and the pit instruction sections. And the pit and the second teaching
also divided into the four groups, four sections, outer section, inner section, cigarette section
the mostly cigarette pit instruction sections. This teaching what we're going through is pit
instruction section, the most cigarette teaching, the fourth one, fourth one, essence of the
teachings. And the teaching is that there's nothing higher, deeper, more powerful, more
direct teaching than this teaching. Even we meet Buddha, actually Buddha, or even someone said,
even one person Buddha come together, discuss it, how the best teaching to present to all the
beings,
to get enlightenment so quickly or so fast. There's nothing else besides this teaching,
Jokti teaching, this teaching what we discuss or what we're going through, really a Kona
teaching. So therefore feel joy, appreciation, how fortunate we are, how really we are,
our triggers, nuggety triggers, are rolling in front of our doors or our hands. How special,
kind of activated of joy and fresh feeling and embracing that with joy, devotion, courage,
commitment, determination, and joyful effort for the Dharma, for the virtues. That's how we
continue.
So this teaching is, that's the essence. That teaching came to it a bit again. I mean,
generally my teaching obtains to three lineages, mind-to-mind transmission lineages, symbolic
transmission lineage, and oral transmission lineage. This has all those lineage teachings,
condense all that three lineage teachings. With this teaching brought in the Tibet by the great
master, Guru Brahma Sambhava, and as well as the great master, Bhimala Mathuram, and as well as
the great master to be the translate of Verojaanam and great Dzokhi masters. This particular Dzokhi
teaching I'm talking about, otherwise generally teaching all that renowned is the great master
Shanda Raghida. But Dzokhi teaching itself, that both. And those teachings are transmitted through
the Tibet with those three ways. Those are known as the Kama, oral transmission lineage,
then my transmission lineage, and the hidden discovered lineages. Hidden was hidden or the
pure region, maybe I should say pure region lineages. So Kama lineage, then my lineage,
and pure region lineages, three lineages. And Kama means oral transmission, from A to A's,
or from the mouth to A, and promote to the A. Or that as a common way, students, from the master
to receive the student, and the student practices with joy, in courage, in commitment, and
inspiration
with joy, as we'll be discussing, and they got realization actually. And they shared that with
others, as exactly as they received from their Gary Masters, teachers, with joy, with devotions,
with humble, with symbol, drawn to earth, earth with compassion, with the loving kindness,
transmitted that to the student. And the students also received that way, and practiced that way,
and transmitted. Those are known as Kama lineage, oral transmission lineage. So that means its
authentic lineage came from the Buddha Shakyamuni, or Buddha Samyantabhadra, and Gaurabhema Samyava
,
never diluted, never spoiled by the intellectual attitude, thought, or this, that, and those,
diluted. Is the still, clean, pure water, water, or the still in the teaching said,
at call it waters, perfect and natural as it was, as it is, it will be continued. How that happened
?
We did every practitioners, keep with joy, precious, devotions, and richness, with appreciation,
really kept that teaching to the core of their heart, and practices, got some realizations,
and then shared to the others, and they continued. That's called pure Kama lineage,
oral transmission lineage. So this teaching is pure teachings from the Buddha, or Samyantabhadra,
or the Buddha Shakyamuni, Gaurabhema Samyama, there's nothing diluted. There's no need to
change the teachings. Emotions are same. All the sentient beings, past sentient beings, emotions,
present sentient beings, emotions, future sentient beings, emotions, and the duality, it's the same
.
Same with this water, glacier water is same. It's of the purpose to removing the thirst,
and helping to the irrigations, and nurturing the earth, same water. We don't have to dilute it.
Now, purports say more understanding than what they call the organic things, not organics.
Maybe before we thought all this changing is good, all that, but now people see more and
more, they get more smart. Same way, this teaching is organic teachings,
from continuing. Until now, never need changes.
Conception, the duality is, it's conception. What that means? Duality is based on ignorance.
Inference, darkness, not knowing, is dilemmas, is the presumptions.
Presumptions. Teaching is the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, some, all the Buddha,
some of the Buddha, all of them give this teaching, knowing the words of them,
knowing, seeing exactly things as it is. Not just only words with compassion.
The compassion that has no partialities, no discriminations, and share that teaching.
Combined, so good with the rasim, that others say perfect, meaning of everything.
What that means? Everything. Relay truth, absolute truth, exactly as it is.
There is no break, broke, blockages, that not knowing something.
Everything see clearly, perfectly, in one, that instance, without effort, without hardships.
Brilliant. In the teaching, the Buddha sees things clearly as it is crystal ball on this palm,
crystal ball, totally see.
Great teaching. That's not just the wisdom, intelligence, as is it compassion.
Has no self-importance,
nor any negative condensations, negativeities, pure compassion for all the beings,
without any discriminations. That great being, or great and simple, beautiful being
of the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, and Gaurabaya Masambha, all give the teachings.
So therefore, this continued Gama teaching is perfect, like clean water teachings.
And the Thelma teaching is, of course, you all know, barely. Of course, this happened during
the Buddha Shakyamuni and before too, but it's one of the hallmark activities of the great
master, second Buddha, Gaurabaya Masambha, and with assistance with the
what's from Dakini Shim Sahaja. And he did all these teachings, so many teachings,
thinking to the future purpose, or seeing the future needed, needed for the sentient beings,
and he did so many Thelma teaching, of course, we all know. And you heard, we heard so many,
and also really we see some of those amazing objects, what they discovered, those teachings.
And so that Thelma teaching, that is also not diluted, exactly taught by the Gaurabaya Masambha,
or Buddha, and transcribed, exactly the teaching, what said in the teaching,
those are called authentic thelms, exactly follow the instructions, teachings of the Gaurabaya Mas
ambha,
great Ma Vastam Dakini Shim Sahaja's teachings, revealed that. And those are Thelma lineage is
known as very close lineage, so that means it's not long distance lineage, that means what?
But the Thelma lineage is, that's the back, for example, the Buddha Shakyamuni, if we go back there
,
at least 3,600 years ago. But Thelma lineage is that Maripa Masambha came in Tibetan, according to
the history around eight centuries. That time, Maripa Masambha and the Muslim Dakini Shim Sahaja,
other great, those disciples, the hard disciples, hidden the Thelma teachings,
transmitted all the teachings, the empowerment and talking to those individuals at that time,
those great thelms, and said, "You will reward these Thelma teachings in the future generations."
This and that times, that times. And entrust to them, to those beings. And those
beings are already enlightened beings, and their great bodies are the enlightenment
and basically then emanated for the purpose of the future generation or throughout centuries.
And then reward Thelma teachings. And so that means very close lineage of Thelma teachings,
that means, Parangarpa Masambha and Yixin Sahaja, to that theorem. So there is like, maybe that
theorem come, for example. Thelma came in the 19th century, or early 20th century, that we all know
.
And Thelma has all the transmissions of the Thelma at that time. And so this, between there is many
,
many hundred years between that century and the 19th century or 20th centuries. But yet,
lineage is so fresh, so connected, and revered. Therefore, in the teaching of the Thelma teaching
is so fresh, even the warm breath of the Dakini is not the same page. So fresh. It's just a newly
cooked oven food, right, put it in your dinner tables. And to for use of you, for use of our self.
How that is really called closed lineages. And then pure vegan lineage, lineage again is similar.
Because these thelma are already enlightened beings. There are, many of those are emanations
of the 25 disciples, one of the, one, one, whatever they are. And the Dunyun Rongan is the eman
ation,
renowned emanation of the Drosi Cechong Lotta, as well as His Holiness Dunyun Rongan's emanation.
So they're already enlightened beings, enlightened beings. And then the previous of the Drosi Cech
ong
Lotta in the teaching, life story of the His Holiness Dunyun Rongan, Dunyun Rongan of Dunyul
Rongas said, like for example, great master Sarahas, great one of the 80 Mahasadas of the,
of the India Sarahas. So forth, really all those enlightened beings are reincarnated,
manifested by the comparison to benefit for the beings one after another. And then
19th century, the Dunyun Rongans. So his realization is a pure vision. What that also means is that
indicated there is two visions in pure vision and pure vision. This is pure vision. What is the
vision of the Buddhas, Gurba and Masambhava? Pure vision. Our vision of this world, this world
in pure vision, in pure. And what that great and the Buddha teaching or the great master material
said, according to the realization of the sentient beings, at least there is three visions.
In pure vision, mixture vision and pure vision. And in pure vision, what we have
in pure vision, our vision is the vision of the duality that completely fresh and not
destroyed or not damaged, even not crumbling, crumbling, fresh, naked, intact, duality visions.
We see things are then in pure and very regiment, ups and downs, challenges, all that.
And mixture vision is the bodhisattvas. Those are first brumis or the allocation part,
accumulation parts. Seeing part of the first brumis, second brumis, third brumis,
those visions are mixture visions. Pure in pure because they're more cleaned,
more purified, their dualities. Therefore, visions are coming bright and bright.
And then Buddha's vision, enlightenment is pure vision.
Pure vision. Buddha's vision, this universe is pure land. Poems are, as in the teaching
making, the ongoing God by the end of the world teaching making, poems are the poem. Poems,
what's called poem aggregates, peeling aggregates, all those aggregates, five aggregates, as we
heard
so many times, we read five Diana Buddhas. Five element is the five Pima Buddhas. This is not just
its stories, reality really it is according to teaching. But we don't see it because of dualities.
Buddha see, even in the Gharbha teaching, one in the teaching said, even the Buddha is looking
at something or not in pure, cannot find. Everything is pure, that enlightened states.
That is true. That is our future visions, our vision when we practice meditators.
So these teaching, instead of the in that state of the realization, then this teaching came
appeared.
That is what this teaching is. So now I'm going to talk too much about generally what we went
last year. We started this teaching last year and we went through through. I mean, this has
what's called this teaching of the Shirek Durya Nombu. Shirek Durya Nombu, Hiawa Zhen
Evenness has at sections or at chapters. And we went last year, the first title, and then
then the home age, pure home age and how this teaching appeared with the five pathways or how
this teaching appeared, those we went through. And then we came on the teachings on this, like
particularly teachings on how to continually carry, at the beginning, the practitioners
carry on this teaching really with the mind, with the conceptions, with the mind.
So conception as part, how we move forward in that way. And now we go to the to the last year,
we stopped here. So I'm going to go from there, trying to go from there. And then we go this way,
this way and the page where we are. I think many of you have these books. So then this is where we
go. I think page 11. Page 11. And, and, and he has page 11. According to this is page 11,
conceptual thought says, therefore, there are non conceptions, non conceptions. And, and so now
this is, as I said, this generally, of course, a big in the practice, you know, so when we practice
,
even in the Dokhin, we need to understand of the how to stabilize our mind.
Without the stabilizing our mind and the realization of the Dokhin or the Tukchu, teaching won't
come
easily then. So therefore we need to have more stabilized meant. And therefore, in this teaching,
we already went last year. And of course, we all know, we discussed with the Shamatha meditation,
explainer of the Shamatha meditation. Shamatha meditation means Shamatha is a Sanskrit word,
which means abiding calmly, abiding calmly, abiding calmly in one single status. That means
calm means no conceptions, turbulence conceptions. And the conceptions of the, of the past,
conceptions of the future, conceptions of this present time, no conceptions. We relax. In order
to do this practice, of course, again, every practice begins with good motivations, as we
discussed earlier, and you all know, with good motivation. Really, first they have kind of sit
down on the cushion or the chair, comfortably, relaxedly, comfortably, and bring up more
beautiful intention thought, as we discussed that, beautiful devotions, bodhicata thought,
really for the strong presence of the Gurbama sambhava. It's separated with your root teachers,
really for the strongly, and Gurbama sambhava is embodiment of all Buddhas of the past,
present and the future, that come together in one singular. Not just the Buddha, all the
of the rafudas come together on one single state as some Gurbama sambhava. Gurbama sambhava is
transcendent western rainbow body of love and compassion, compassion and the rainbow bodies,
seeing in front of their right, seeing that image right in front of it. As moment we have
the confidence, we have the atrocities, without the disturbed by the doubt and hesitation,
really in the teachings, that Buddha has no distance. Moment, right that moment,
Buddha will be right in front of us. In front of that, then feel strong presence, as I said,
with really joy and appreciation. And also pray, may I actualize realization of the true nature
in this lifetime. May I become the one of the very beautiful persons to benefit all living beings,
really by the blessings of you. May I actualize the truth, this our one own Buddha nature,
discover that. And all those, and then do some prayers, as you know, seven line prayers, all the
mantras of the Gurbama, really strongly, sincerely. And then Gurbama sambhava is all, all with all,
receiving those blessings, lighted at the window of teachings, or in guru yoga practices, guru yoga
practice, and may merge in Gurbama sambhava to your own nature of the mind, to find and dissolve,
dissolve. Now, Gurbama sambhava is all your root teachers, all the object where effort is not
outside. It's completely merged with your own natural mind. For that reason, he's only doing
your teaching in a short window teaching. Behold the true absolute path. Behold the empty, absolute
Behold the emptiness, absolute true path of the true Lama. Behold. So that means what?
Now, behold your own nature of the mind. Relax. Nature. At that time when our mind is due to all
this consumption, the turbulence of the past, the habit, dependence, won't stay.
Even you want to stay. That means even want to stay one point, you won't stay. For that reason,
then use some supporters of the objects. Those are you all know, many of you know, so I won't go
more details on this. Object. Focus on that. That means what? You're concentrating to that object.
Whatever you put right in front of you, maybe one meter or one and a half meter in front of you,
you put some objects, small objects, concentrated on that. That means your mind is with two eyes,
two eyes, and the two eyes are on the triangle level and pointing, looking to that object,
and hold that support for your concentrations. That's called
commutator or shamata with the objects. Whatever you like to use with the breathings,
also use breath. That means again, the same posture, same thing.
Relax on the chair or in the cushion, comfortably, softly, and then breathing count from the nost
rils.
And don't change the breathings. Exhale what you're used to and calm the breathings or
follow the breathings. Breathing in and out or exhale, inhale. Follow the country, gently,
peacefully. How long you can do. Even sometimes they can't. How long we can follow without mind
moved from the concentrate on the breathing. Concentrate on breathing. And so that is called
shamata with the support. Meditate anything. And then there's many techniques. I'm sure you
all know those, and many times in teaching said also the great master Vimalamata mentioned
use the Buddha images. Right in front of you put small tables and put small Buddha statues
and concentrate on the third eye support. And the great master Ragaakse in the teaching said
concentrate on the heart of the Buddhas. Buddhas, he mentioned Amitabha, put right in front of you,
Amitabha, concentrate on the heart of the Buddha or third eye support of the Buddha. Concentrate.
Buddha is calm and peaceful through them. And Buddha is always on the meditation.
That means Buddha never moved out of the nature. It's all time. Whether Buddha sitting, whether
Buddha walking, whether Buddha is discussing, whether Buddha is engaging with some other
Sangha members or students, Buddha is all the time in that natural status. And seeing Buddha
is making his brains calm and peaceful. Really it's beautiful. Buddha is soothing,
calming, and just feel strong presence and concentrate on that. Those are meditation
with the supporters or shamata with the supporters. When you don't need the support, then meditate.
Just relax as your mind. Realize. Again, the posture, everything is the same. Relax.
When you relax in the meditation, stay here, then initiate the word. He said
conception toward, cease. Then it will stop all conceptions. How long we can stay,
actually cease the conceptions. For example, for beginner practitioners, for many of us, really,
how long we can stay. That means one minute, two minutes, three minutes. How long we can do
the shamata meditation without our mind is disturbed by our own thoughts. How long it stays.
And that then gradually is of course extended, extended, stabilized. At the beginning of time,
there is many of those in the teaching said. Beginning of time, we meditate. When we do the
shamata meditation, the moment we sit down and meditate, it looks like our mind is so active,
so active. And what in the teaching said, mentioned those, is like gushing the blocks
from the mountains. It's really, we see this. So agitated, the mind is so active, can't stand it.
Even one second looks like. In the teaching said, every teaching said,
that is not something you cannot meditate. That is the first sign of the mind is now we are stabil
izing.
We are taming the mind. When you see, the more mind is always being like that active,
but we did not notice it. When you begin to relax it, then we see that. So that is good.
Now we are noticing of the how our mind is active. Then that become calmer and calmer,
calmer and calmer. In the teaching making, there's five different ways, kind of like
experience goes. Finally, it comes as like the, what's called, like bond or like that has no
disturbances. When you look far away, like it's so calm and peaceful, it looks like. But when you
come close to the light, there's still ripples. That is also called the fourth stage of the
meditation. Then, continue to meditate. Then it becomes completely calm, like mountains. Those are
in the teaching, the different stages, but without tired, without bored, with joy, with devotion,
with both each other, with really activated. This is the first time I am training my conception
mind.
I am taming the mind. What the great teacher, brother said in the teaching, he said,
"Tame your mind. This is my teaching. Tame your own mind." So that means, taming our own mind.
This is so powerful, so special. When we turn our mind, then beauty of the mind,
the nature of the mind will shine. Then it's like coming out. What are the beauty of the
nature of the mind? Shenyang, joy, appreciation, love, kindness, more patience, more tolerance,
more respect, more humble, more simple. Really, all those comes. Then even the emotional things
happen externally, not going to immediately agitate it, or immediately recognize the weakness
of our own self. We are able to liberate it, or we can handle that. Those are the signs
of the good practitioners. Then we continually meditate. "Here, sit here, sit there." All that,
for everyone, when the connection of then, the bliss, emptiness, and the luminosity,
all those will come. This is in the teaching said, that every teaching, all the meditation
instruction teaching said, "When you meditate, make your mind become more calm and peaceful
in the samatha or the zokki meditation." What were you doing? The zokki is the vipashana meditation
.
So whatever that means, samatha in meditation and the samatha, what? Samadam is a calming,
abiding calm. Vipashana means, in Sanskrit, seeing the nature of the mind.
And zokki is what? Union of the vipashana and samatas. Zokki meditation is union.
It's calm. It's peaceful. It's seen clearly as its own naturals. So at the time, at that time,
when we are good meditation, or everything is happening, then this experience will come in the
teaching. Every teaching mentioned, every practitioner mentioned that it will never come.
What are those experiences? As teaching said here, experience of the blissfulness, experience of
the
clarity, experience of the non-duals, no thought. Those all will come. Naturally, it's not
something
that we have to make trying to come. When we are meditating and practicing, this naturally will
come
as part of the development, sign of the development of our practices. And so now here, even those
comes, third line explaining, become as an object of the attachment desires. And we start
attachment to those experiences. Then it become handedness. Then it become obstacles. It become
not obstacle immediately, but it become long run its obstacles. Obstacles of the development of
the realizations, and then obstacles of the delay of this, our progresses. It will be bliss. So
therefore, and then, so every and here mentioned, and what that happened, then I'm in teaching said
,
and they will become the object of attachment desire, experience of the painful,
and mental body speaking mind, arising sporadically in the stages. So all these experiences will
come.
Different experiences will come, show up. This is not just only the two meditators.
Every practitioner will have those experiences. So many different experiences really will come.
At the beginning time, this is the blessfulness, and clarity, and the non-duals comes. But then
we continue to hold on to that, that, and then that those meditation become very, very
radicals, or very, very, what's called, unstable. And so many different experiences, so many
different
feelings, experiences, conceptions, comes one after another. As in the teaching said here,
then there's no regulations. No regulations, all those will come up, everything. And this is what
the teaching said. For example, "Buddhakhyakya Muni," for example, "Buddhakhyakya Muni is even
his reaching enlightenment under the body to him, is the last portion, stages of his enlightenment.
According to the teaching, Buddha accumulated 23 eons," sorry, not 23, I'm sorry, "three countless
eons, three countless eons, Buddha accumulated merits to reach enlightenment. That his final
moment of the getting enlightenment, then you're often called "Maraskem," disturbed.
This is vision of the Buddha. It's not just happening externally in all the villages that
inhabitants can see. It's in a way, in a battle, battle. It is. That's what the, in a Buddha
teaching automatically, even in the beginning of the practice, we go through many different
stages of the unconscious challenges. Those are what in the teaching, external challenges,
inward challenges, and secret challenges. External challenges, for example,
I'll use an example of Buddha. External challenges, Buddha's vision,
So, those old maras, post they came pleasing ways,
very trying to, trying to disturb one way or another.
Post is a very pleasing ways.
Very sensual, sensual, sensual, sensual, sensual, sensual, sensual, sensual,
sensual ways, poem, song, smell, taste, touch.
Those all came in the Buddhas.
Also in the teachings, many great brat-grasanas can see,
those are what in the teachings said in the Buddhism.
Those are called demon of the destructions.
The disturbing even looks like a period
where a sensual place of object is appealing things,
but they are the demon.
One demon is disturbing our realization, progresses,
is pulling down.
That is really all that.
And then that didn't happen.
Then rub things came.
And all the Maras, Thoden Maras.
And the great Masala Bhama, sorry,
Malarepa also experience when you read life's role of him.
When one time he went, went to get the collective firewood,
went out of his caves, went to collect the firewood,
when he come back inside,
there is a strange being sitting on his cushions.
And there are the sides, as big as the thumb sides,
but eyes are big as like balls, the cups.
It's made of wooden balls, balls.
And sitting in his room, his bed, his cave,
when he come back to the bed.
So what Malarepa did, he started chanting some mandaras
and all that things.
And they didn't go.
They so get more stronger, more stronger,
even they kind of act more glorified.
Then he finally thought, "Oh, my great teacher,
the Marpa introduced everything is mind.
Mind is empty.
Everything what you see is display of the mind.
This is not externally existing.
It is my own mind imagination with that realization."
So he built up his wrist of the realization and went inside.
They all trembling and become small and small.
And they disappeared.
They disappeared.
So this is externally appearing.
In the Buddha, in the teaching, he said,
"Elos Regum II, so many demons coming and throwing
all these things."
That is external.
Inwardly, all this again bumpy, and that practitioners
become kind of very, again, physical experience,
unhealthy and suffering, difficulty, troubles,
and all these things.
All that kind of things, really things,
one after another, kind of unexpected happening.
Those are called inner obstacles.
Signal obstacle is mind.
Mind has become more agitated, more doubt, more hesitation,
hesitation to our side, to the teaching,
to the practices, the teachings.
And all the thoughts, really, the consulsions
are troubling in the mind.
And then maybe in the kind of dream,
the vision of why you practice and why you need meditation,
why you come here, what are you doing this?
And all those, so many things in the teaching he said.
It's just like, all that things comes.
What is this?
It's testing our practices.
In the Buddha teaching, in the Pandya Paramada teaching,
teaching said, those who practice,
the Pandya practices, demons started crying.
Those obstacles started crying.
They said, oh, I cannot defeat that individual.
Now they practice the Pandya Paramada.
And then they're desperate needed.
And they're trying to show some more strength
in doing different things, trying to erase the doubt
and hesitation in the mind of that practitioner of Bodhisattva,
path of practicing the Pandya Paramatas.
But the great practitioners, seeing those things,
get more courage, more commitment, more confidence,
and continue meditating.
And then they can't do anything.
That great practitioner, Bodhisattva,
are flying in the sky as the bird without any blockages
of the hindrance.
Then they overcome all that.
This has happened many times.
So he has said, all that comes, comes.
And it is what?
When you have the hops and long pole, whatever good this.
Then if you feel opposite those bad thinking and truly
existing, then what will happen?
Then you have gone after the hindrance
and the dangerous, mysterious paths.
Then as you're gone, you really lost the controls.
Here, in the debate, it is called the kor-shor-nor.
And kor is, I think, astray, I think, astray.
And shor is the hindered.
And nor is the mistaking.
So kor is generally this kor.
I've simply translated kor means deleted.
If I translate it this way, my simple way.
Delaying.
Or distal, distals.
And kor-shor.
Shor means hindered.
And if I also translate it this way, shor means lost.
Lost.
Nor is then mistaking.
So this is kor-shor.
This is actually in the teaching,
when you say mention, this is the practitioner.
So always there should be always third pole with this 3.3.
Detour and lost the control and mistakings.
What means delayed, or I translate it, detour or the delayed?
This is a particularly, sometimes,
the practitioner, mistakingly delayed or detoured
by the three experiences.
Those three experiences are the blissful experience
and clarity experience and no thought experience,
as already mentioned earlier.
What means the blissfulness?
Generally, in the great master, [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
in his teaching mentioned that blissfulness is not
blissfulness of the sensual pleasure of blissful,
or it is not bliss by the substances,
if we take substances, something, and feel blissful.
This is not the bliss of that.
But this is the bliss of that when our meditations become
strong or good, and you don't like to stop.
You feel so comfortable and calm and at peace,
and you don't like to stop.
You can feel that.
That is the blissfulness.
So now, what is that?
Why does it become the detour?
And we attach it.
We grasp it.
We like to have that more.
Then it becomes delayed.
It detours our practice.
What means the detour, delayed?
In the teaching of the print, it said,
if you attach to the blissfulness,
you will take rebirth in the desirums.
Desirums.
So instead of going--
desirums is samsara.
Instead of going through beyond samsara,
we are stopping in the samsara.
We are stopping on the resting area on the highways.
It's really nice looking.
I think we reached the destination.
We're just going to rest here.
But your destination is quite far.
So then we delay it.
And then we bond back to the desirums.
So that's why in teaching, it said, don't attach it that way.
And its coming is good.
Having those experiences is good.
That is a sign of progress, but it's not the final goal.
But therefore, continue to make it.
Continue to keep up that.
And the second is, then, is the second delay is the clarity.
Clarity means what?
In the Grand Master's [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
in his teaching.
It is clarity means pre-promda, pre-promda, dullness,
and poginess, pre-promda status, and able to relax our mind
or the meditation with calm and clear status.
That is clarity, clear status.
Everything that clarity is, again,
to this kind of seeing different images,
seeing different vision is clarity and holding onto that.
That is the detox.
Again, it is a delay.
That is a delay.
And why that means delay?
And we attach it to that.
In the teaching mentioned, we long attach it with that.
We will bond, or that become the cause
to rebirth in the poem rams.
Poem rams, there's three rams in the Buddhist open talks.
Three rams.
Three rams, desire rams, poem rams, poem-less rams.
Those are innate.
Those come.
Some of them come.
Those are three rams.
So the first of a year more kind of appealing and a pleasure
and experience and holding with the attachment of that please
or comfortable experience of that,
that is then become the cause attached.
Then become the cause to take the rebirth in the desire rams.
And we attach it to that clarity, that clear and brilliant,
free from the dullness, free from the pogginess
of the meditation and feel this is ultimate
and then kind of get attached with that.
Then that become the, can be caused to birth to the poem rams.
Poem rams is according to teaching.
Of course all this teaching is God's rams.
God's and particularly God's rams.
Desire rams has also God's rams too.
Those are called six levels of the desire rams of the gods.
There's six rams.
And the poem rams is all God's rams in the teaching makings.
And then this non-dual thought means what?
Non-dual thought, again great master Jing-Wen-Lung-Bai said,
non-thought means the meditation state which is free from turbulence
of the conceptions and movement of the thought.
Relaxing calmly in the clear state of the meditation, meditation,
that is no thought.
No thought is not blank status.
No thought is not mindless status or has no mindfulness.
No thought means free from the turbulence of the conceptions.
Relaxing calmly, peacefully, or calmly in that clear state
of the mind is the no thought.
That is not blank status, not neutral status or blockage status.
And we're thinking again, no thought state is a blank status.
Then kind of relax on that status more than that.
Then it can become caused to take the birth
in the poem-less rams, even in the Psalm teaching making every continuous state
that we become more dummy, more dummy.
It becomes like caused to take the birth, even in the animal rams,
that no thought.
So therefore, every kind of field, those are the ultimate state.
And that's then in the teaching said here, here.
I kind of went a little bit more that is the astray, handed, and the dangerous mistake
because it brings back to the samsara, samsara not going beyond the samsara.
For that reason, then here is the one technique that applies to everything,
soul, essential point of the path.
Path is those all, whatever that is, the next page.
It's page 12 now. And in order to obtain, certainly experience those all,
the happiness and peace, what's called the blessfulness and clarity
and suffering, the difficulty, whatever that, all are unreal.
Impressions, the subtle experience.
And for that reason, understanding this, you will come.
Rest without rejecting, establishing or rejecting, accepting anything, anything.
And then relax and calm, pristine, clear, unimpeded state of the mind
as it is relaxing in that status, that well.
Then I'm moving this page 12 in the middle of this line.
I said this is therefore is a single eye, single technique
that will discriminate in the wisdom which will cut arrows
in the divisions of all this, completely will destroy,
toy, it will remove that.
So therefore, then meditate, exactly as you receive instructions.
Meditate calm and peaceful, relax as it is on this present status.
What N.M.M. teaching said that the mind, the nature of the mind is calm,
nature of the mind is clarity, nature of the mind is fresh,
nature of the mind is uncontrupted.
Relax in that natural state, relax and calmly,
relax on the unconstructingly, relax as freshness, relax as it is.
Don't try to do something, relax as without any holding
and freeing all the conceptions.
Then it really comes exactly to the nature of the mind.
Then it is really advancing.
And the nature of the mind, see the nature of the mind exactly as it is.
And that is then vipassana.
Nature is, as I said, fresh, naked, emptiness.
The nature of the mind is preformed to all those aspects.
What does that mean, the aspects in the teaching of the mind?
I'm sure you heard that, you know that.
Existing, non-existing, neither and either.
That is the mind.
Existing is a conception, and not existing is a conception.
Neither is a conception.
And existing, non-existing, neither is a conception.
Conception.
Conception is what?
Duality.
Duality is the cause of samsara.
Duality is unnatural according to the teaching.
That is really, we deluded from that.
We carried the force of duality from the beginning times.
Now we are reversing back to the nature by the powerful method of the Dzogchi teachings.
Ovejena teaching, which is known as the union of skillful means and versatile combined together.
We return it with simple, easy, direct, yet so powerful.
And therefore what in the teaching said, there is nothing to do.
Just be in the natural status.
Great Masala Gurba Ema Samba said in one of his teachings, people said, "I don't know
how to meditate."
There's nothing to meditate.
Just relax, he said.
Relax on the natural as it is.
And freshly, nakedly, openly, and naturally, and not holding anything.
That is the freshness.
That is the nakedness of it.
That is what we really advance.
We want to advance.
When we meditate in the practice, continue like that.
Then what is arising?
More joy, more appreciation, more devotions, more great force, gratitude, all those beautiful
things really come.
And then also begin to see things are all as magic displays.
Magic displays, magic comes, magic is here, and magic goes.
Nothing is permanent existing at all.
Existing is the magic displays.
All intermingled with interdependent co-ordination or interconnected.
This interconnected also in the very end of the teaching mentioned as illusion nets.
Nets, so many things are connected med.
But it's illusion.
Illusion, it doesn't mean it's not going to function.
It's going to function exactly as it is on the illusion wall.
And that is when you have realization.
That is not illusion, that nets of the wisdom.
It is a wisdom.
Very much your wisdom and compassion.
That is how it is.
So that, that, that.
And then next one is, next one is then, therefore, I think we went through this, and some, some
having become distant from the authentic spiritual friend, authentic spiritual friend.
So this authentic spiritual friend is generally is spiritual friend, yeah, spiritual friend
is in Sanskrit, I think is known as Kalyanamatras, Kalyanamatras.
And if I translate it roughly that, I mean it's intubated, translated Giphi, Gebhini.
If we translate it that into English, friend of virtues, friend of virtues.
Friend of virtues is called in a common name in the Vinaya teaching and the Suttara teaching
is teacher, teacher is spirit.
So therefore it is indicating that we all need, need spiritual friends or we need teacher.
Any teacher is generally in the Buddha teaching, often mentioned, you must contract with spiritual.
That's what Buddha said.
Spiritual friend, until we reach enlightenment, Sancha Matu, but Gebhini in tears, until
you reach enlightenment or as long as you are on the path, we need spiritual friend,
we need teachers.
So there is spiritual friend, talking about the spiritual friend.
In the Buddha teaching, general explained of the spiritual friend, there is three types
of the spiritual friends.
The ordinary spiritual friend and then bodies are, or four types of the spiritual friends.
The ordinary spiritual friends, bodies are those spiritual friends, namakaya spiritual
friends and the sambhokaya spiritual friends.
Those all four are known as poor spiritual friends or teacher or the guru, whatever we
named.
Those are different terminologies.
So there's four, poor spiritual friends in that way.
And who, how we can contract all these spiritual friends?
Because since we are ordinary sentient beings, we cannot contract easily bodhisattva spiritual
friend or virtuous friend.
We cannot contract namakaya spiritual friend.
We cannot contract with sambhokaya spiritual friend.
So where we, how we, who we can contract?
Our kababali range, range of our kababali we can contract.
The spiritual friend, the ordinary spiritual friend, those are in a Tibetan word, sosu
jivu gavu hinyi, sosu jivu gavu hinyi, sosu jivu, I'm translating, ordinary, ordinary.
That means regular human beings, regular human beings, spiritual friend.
So now, mostly on this earth, I'm not talking all of them, but most of this earth, our teachers
are accordant teaching, I'm talking, accordant teaching is ordinary sentient beings.
That means they are practitioners, they are dualities, they are not enlightened, they're
just regular human beings.
Or even they're regular human beings.
In the Buddha teaching mentioned, there's qualifications of that.
Again, there's numerous explanation of the, in the Buddha teaching, the qualification
of the ordinary human beings, teachers, teachers, accordant, in the, accordant contracts, contracts
of the three, three yanas, three yanas, ordinary teachers of the Vinayakshi schools, ordinary
teachers of the Mahayana schools, only teachers of the, then very ordinary teachers, so they're
like that, or ordinary teachers of the, yeah, those ordinary teachers.
And what in the teaching mentioned, there's many, many mentioned, and Vinaya teaching,
I'm just trying to simplify, simplify, so what the ordinary teachers, teachers, they
need, need, qualifications, what are qualifications, the qualifications of the, the moralities,
qualifications of the concentrations and qualifications of the wisdoms.
Those are known as the, the, yeah, qualification of the morality, and qualification of morality
means who have the percept, who kept the percept, percept, whatever they are, whether they are
under practitioners, whether they are Mahayana practitioners, Sutra Mahayana practitioners,
whether they are Vinaya, that whatever, that lay practitioners, whatever they are, they
kept the perceptus, observed the perceptus.
And then the qualification of the, of the concentrations, they have some realizations,
understand, or good realizations, that's the best, realizations of the Samadhi meditation,
Vipassana meditations, good meditations of the qualifications.
And then they had the qualifications of the, of the wisdoms, morality, that means understand
the meaning of the teachings, all the teachings, and as well as also realization of the teachings,
realizations of the morality, realizations of the Samadhi's concentration, realizations
of the, of the wisdoms, absolute truth, and I relate to some understand quite good.
So those are the three in Buddhism, what called three extra-only practices, morality,
concentrations,
and wisdoms.
How that used extra-only practice of the morality, extra-only practice of the concentrations
or the meditation, extra-only practice of the wisdoms, those are three.
Those are, if you summarize all that, what are those?
Those are known as qualification of the realizations.
In the Buddhism, what in the teaching said, Buddha's teaching is, has true, teaching of
the scriptural aspect and teaching of the realization aspect.
And that is innovative, known as the longer true, talk with you.
The scripture means teaching itself, books and volumes, all three, Pritakas, three, six,
nine yanas, all those teachings.
And topa or realization means meaning of these teachings, some realization of that meaning
of that, not just a word, not just only on the language and titles and all that, but
realization.
And when you have those qualities, what has happened then?
Your body becomes, that practitioner's body is, those spiritual friends, his body conduct
is calmer, peaceful, and verbal speeches are calmer and peaceful.
Mind is also quite calmer, peaceful, some degree, because of realization of the true
nature and less negative emotions or grasping, clinging, self-importance, attitudes, those
are things.
So those are known as talk for realization, realization of the understanding of true nature.
Then not just only the realization, you have the teachings of the, have the compassion.
Compassion that who are also really has compassion to teach and help in the sports.
And who has also courage in commitment patient, not born in a tide, but benefited from the
others or upholding teaching of the gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni or some of us, some
of us.
And then who has also little more knowledge, more realization than ourself, ourself, Rigal
Bhasa.
So there's little more that.
Those are the pre-subcalifications of the teachers.
In the Vedayana teaching, particularly in the Vedayana teaching, in the Maha, sorry.
In the, in a Tantra teaching mentioned, there is, at college, that was explained in the
Nuhangarpa Tantra or the Maha Yoga Tantras, at qualification of the teachers.
Those are known as then these, one who hold three treasures, three treasures.
Those are the treasures of the will, that understanding of the inseparable or realization
of the will, of the realization of the will, of the realization of the purity of all these
phenomena existentities and equally or together with a union of this emptiness, emptiness
realization.
So that means who has some realization of that, what that means actually?
What that means, all this according Maha Yoga on a Tantra, all is enlightenment status.
So that means all is pure as we discussed earlier. All is pure. All the forms, I would get
enlightened.
Five elements are enlightened.
See that as pure as it is.
Nature of that purity is emptiness, emptiness.
And there is true emptiness and purity of the inseparable.
So realization, the will, that will have the realization of the will seeing inseparable
of the purity and the emptiness.
That is the post-treasure.
Second treasure is inseparable realization of the, of the visualization and completion
stages, exactly inseparable, together.
Visualizations, of course, in Vedic energy, there is a lot of creation stage, meditation
or visualizations and is a union with the completion stages.
So that is second treasure.
Third treasure is, is the treasure of the keeping of the Samayas, general Samaya and
Pacific Samayas of the different deities and the chitney, damsaikas.
So that is those are known as three treasures who have, who hold some relief of those three
treasures.
And the next one, the fourth one, who receive the old empowerment teachings, empowerment,
and which is the empowerment, that's the beneficial empowerment and powerful empowerment, called
the teaching, those, those are many explanations and performed empowerment, those empowerment
and kept that.
And then who have also responsibilities, fourth one, no, no, fifth one, fifth one is responsible,
who have the responsibility, responsible, who have keeping, keeping up the responsibility
to keep up the lineage teachings, not neglected, exactly as it is keeping up the responsibility
of the lineage teaching and taking care of the, those who are connected, those who are
student, all the students who are connected, who cares, who cares the lineage teaching,
who cares students.
And that is the fifth.
Sixth one is one who has understanding of the realizations, and who is expert or who
has some knowledge of the, of the old, what's called his name, all the ritual objects, ritual
objects, ritual implements, and the thomas, all that is.
And the next one is, is then who had always warm and warm hearted with the, with warm
hearted with compassion.
And then the last one, who is also quite expert of the old Tantra teachings, Tantra teachings
of the, of the Mahayoga, Anu-yoga, and the Ati-yoga teachings, or as a general, general
teacher, those are teaching mentioned, mentioned at qualities of the way they are in the teachings.
And somehow we couldn't find all that at least who have the lineage teaching and keeping
up the, of the Samaya and the responsibilities and with compassion, with compassion and being
as good practitioners, being practiced, not just only talking, but practicing, practicing
themselves.
Those are the teachings said.
So those are, are that it's just the really, really of the, of the spiritual friend of
the ordinary beings, ordinary beings.
And again, this ordinary beings that we can contract, but this, the three other spiritual
friends, according to teaching is difficult to find.
We don't have the capabilities.
If we have, if we have to have the body of the spiritual friends, you have to have realization
according to teaching is at least an application path or seeing path, path, I have five path,
path according to that.
And then when you're in that ninth, boomie, tenth, boomie, then you can contract with
the, with the Namakaya spiritual friends.
Then you're really like in the last stage of the boat, tenth boomies, then you can contract
with Sambokaya spiritual friends.
But otherwise we can, we don't have the capabilities, but according our range, our kind of way we
can handle, we can contract is spiritual, only individually spiritual friend who has
good qualities, good those qualities according to teaching.
And the spiritual friend of the ordinary spiritual friend according to teaching is so important,
so precious.
Because having contract with ordinary spiritual friends that will lead us able to contract
with the bodhisattva spiritual friend, Namakaya spiritual friend, Sambokaya spiritual friend.
So therefore this first spiritual friend with ordinary is really crucial, so important.
And therefore you should contract with full of joy, devotion, when you find, and that
is what in the teaching mentioned is so important.
So important and that is so best.
For us, that's the best, best, and then do the practice, and then you will be able to
meet all those, and contract all these, teach the spiritual friends, okay?
And so, and with this, and so, so now I think our stop here, okay?
Thank you very much everyone, I think I'm going to stop here, thank you, thank you everyone.
Thank you, we'll do again two minute meditation.
Okay, thank you.
Okay.
With a short dedication please, and dedication please, and again, you have few can addition
some praise, so we do those.
And then we're going to pray, the supplication prayer for the strap returns of the Chabjib
of the Chabjib of the Chabjib of the Chabjib of the Chabjib
of the Chabjib of the Chabjib.
Okay, thank you so much, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you,
thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you,
not even the names, disease, famine, war, and suffering be heard, but rather may pure conduct,
marriage, wealth, and prosperity increase. And may supreme good fortune and well-being
always arise. The precious bodhicitta and those without it may it be generated, and
those who have it may it never diminish, but always continue increasing. May the great
tradition of kenpo-chantarakshita, lopam-vatma-sambhava, and dharma-king, kritsundetsan increase
and
spread throughout the three-round world. May the appearance of the three jewels and the mind
streams of beings remain inseparable and brings sublime well-being throughout the three times.
Deity, mantra, and dharma-kaya are the nature of appearance, sound, and awareness. The pervasive
kaya, the wisdom display of the Buddhas, may practitioners of the profound and secret great
perfection remain inseparable from the innermost one-taste awareness of wisdom minds.
[Music]
Thank you. Thank you very much for participating. Thank you. May we see you this afternoon. And
tomorrow morning, we won't have the teachings that is going to offer the empowerment with
a very subtle empowerment. So I kind of feel always that we are hesitated to do this through
the internet. So we're going to do that here and won't have the teaching. So that will be.
Thank you very much, everyone. And then, of course, we will resume everything Monday. Thank you,
Taki Delhi. And tomorrow, up in the web, meditation, we have time. Thank you, Taki Delhi. Thank you
.